### Article Title: _Coronavirus: How many in Britain are still unvaccinated?_
#### Article Source: _The Independent_

#### [Article Link](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/covid-uk-unvaccinated-number-people-b1919742.html)

  This article is about the vaccination rates within the UK’s different countries. Specifically, the high number of people who remain unvaccinated despite the government starting to make steps in approving booster shots. Overall 28% of British citizens are unvaccinated, which translates to 5.9 million people who can get shots but haven’t. Then, the article dives into stats about each specific nation within the UK. Overall, 31.5% of people in Northern Ireland, 28.2% of people in England, 25.3% of people in Wales, and 24.2% of people in Scotland are still unvaccinated. The article also makes the note that in all regions, vaccination rates increase in the older age groups. 
	
  I decided to pick this article because I felt that it was something I could easily find an article about in the US. Both countries seem to be struggling with vaccination rates and it was interesting to see basically the same discussions occurring in both the US and the UK. I also found it interesting to see a potential cultural contrast between the different countries of the UK. Not that the vaccination rates between the countries are the end-all-be-all for determining cultural differences, but it is a clue, similar to how vaccination rates can help show the differences between states like Washington and states like South Dakota. I also thought it was a bit funny to see some of the vocab differences there are between the US and the UK. For example, they call the shots “jabs: throughout the article. Overall, I picked this article because I thought it was similar to what I’d see in the US and I thought it was informative.
