Jonathan Hamstra
CS Cultural Program Prep
10/6/2021
EX04 Tramshed Tech Partner Write Up
This is about the group GoMedia, an organization that works on designing, updating, and supporting infotainment softwares to use on trains, trams, busses, and any commonly used public transportation. It’s a uniquely European company, as the whole concept wouldn’t be nearly as popular in the U.S., but over there it is very common to take a train or tram for an hour commute to work. They tie everything together in a way that the U.S. has never tried to do, other than major cities in the 1800s. As such more time and people are on public transportation then you’d ever see in the U.S. GoMedia focuses entirely on making the experience of traveling more enjoyable by providing custom UI interfaces for each transportation client, including big names such as West Midlands, Greyhound, Transpennine Express, and Nation Express. Each client has their own product developed, for instance West Midlands had a large number of passengers trying to work on the tram which required fast internet, so they pushed to become the first tram system in the UK to provide 5g coverage, including backward compatibility for 4g areas. Greyhound coaches had long travel time and wanted to create a way for passengers to watch movies and tv while riding. Personalized tablets in the seats proved too costly, and the vast majority of passengers already owned a smart device, so instead they worked with GoMedia to create a website with a proprietary DRM infrastructure that allowed anyone connected to the on-board wi-fi easy access to streaming all kinds of new movies and shows, without having to download or install anything new. My personal favorite GoMedia application is the Virgin Train EarlyBird, which allows passengers that are anxious about missing a train to get SMS notifications when the train comes in. It even has functionality to allow older passengers and those traveling with kids a notification before the rest of the users so they can find a seat before it gets crowded. It also has comprehensive information on the current location, such as speed, route info, and time to destination. This system also reduces congestion by boarding different groups at different times.
